Content outline
This exam guide includes weightings, content domains, and task statements for the
exam. This guide does not provide a comprehensive list of the content on the exam.
The exam has the following content domains and weightings:
• Content Domain 1: Detection (16% of scored content)
• Content Domain 2: Incident Response (14% of scored content)
• Content Domain 3: Infrastructure Security (18% of scored content)
• Content Domain 4: Identity and Access Management (20% of scored content)
• Content Domain 5: Data Protection (18% of scored content)
• Content Domain 6: Security Foundations and Governance (14% of scored
content)
Content Domain 1: Detection
Task 1.1: Design and implement monitoring and alerting solutions for an AWS
account or organization.
Skill 1.1.1: Analyze workloads to determine monitoring requirements.
Skill 1.1.2: Design and implement workload monitoring strategies (for example, by
configuring resource health checks).
Skill 1.1.3: Aggregate security and monitoring events.
Skill 1.1.4: Create metrics, alerts, and dashboards to detect anomalous data and
events (for example, Amazon GuardDuty, Amazon Security Lake, AWS Security
Hub, Amazon Macie).
Skill 1.1.5: Create and manage automations to perform regular assessments and
investigations (for example, by deploying AWS Config conformance packs,
Security Hub, AWS Systems Manager State Manager).
Task 1.2: Design and implement logging solutions.
Skill 1.2.1: Identify sources for log ingestion and storage based on requirements.
Skill 1.2.2: Configure logging for AWS services and applications (for example, by
configuring an AWS CloudTrail trail for an organization, by creating a dedicated
Amazon CloudWatch logging account, by configuring the Amazon CloudWatch
Logs agent).
Version 1.0 SCS-C03 4 | PAGE 
Skill 1.2.3: Implement log storage and log data lakes (for example, Security Lake)
and integrate with third-party security tools.
Skill 1.2.4: Use AWS services to analyze logs (for example, CloudWatch Logs
Insights, Amazon Athena, Security Hub findings).
Skill 1.2.5: Use AWS services to normalize, parse, and correlate logs (for example,
Amazon OpenSearch Service, AWS Lambda, Amazon Managed Grafana).
Skill 1.2.6: Determine and configure appropriate log sources based on network
design, threats, and attacks (for example, VPC Flow Logs, transit gateway flow
logs, Amazon Route 53 Resolver logs).
Task 1.3: Troubleshoot security monitoring, logging, and alerting solutions.
Skill 1.3.1: Analyze the functionality, permissions, and configuration of resources
(for example, Lambda function logging, Amazon API Gateway logging, health
checks, Amazon CloudFront logging).
Skill 1.3.2: Remediate misconfiguration of resources (for example, by
troubleshooting CloudWatch Agent configurations, troubleshooting missing logs).
Content Domain 2: Incident Response
Task 2.1: Design and test an incident response plan.
Skill 2.1.1: Design and implement response plans and runbooks to respond to
security incidents (for example, Systems Manager OpsCenter, Amazon SageMaker
AI notebooks).
Skill 2.1.2: Use AWS service features and capabilities to configure services to be
prepared for incidents (for example, by provisioning access, deploying security
tools, minimizing the blast radius, configuring AWS Shield Advanced protections).
Skill 2.1.3: Recommend procedures to test and validate the effectiveness of an
incident response plan (for example, AWS Fault Injection Service, AWS Resilience
Hub).
Skill 2.1.4: Use AWS services to automatically remediate incidents (for example,
Systems Manager, Automated Forensics Orchestrator for Amazon EC2, AWS Step
Functions, Amazon Application Recovery Controller, Lambda functions).
Version 1.0 SCS-C03 5 | PAGE 
Task 2.2: Respond to security events.
Skill 2.2.1: Capture and store relevant system and application logs as forensic
artifacts.
Skill 2.2.2: Search and correlate logs for security events across applications and
AWS services.
Skill 2.2.3: Validate findings from AWS security services to assess the scope and
impact of an event.
Skill 2.2.4: Respond to affected resources by containing and eradicating threats,
and recover resources (for example, by implementing network containment
controls, restoring backups).
Skill 2.2.5: Describe methods to conduct root cause analysis (for example, Amazon
Detective).
Content Domain 3: Infrastructure Security
Task 3.1: Design, implement, and troubleshoot security controls for network edge
services.
Skill 3.1.1: Define and select edge security strategies based on anticipated threats
and attacks.
Skill 3.1.2: Implement appropriate network edge protection (for example,
CloudFront headers, AWS WAF, AWS IoT policies, protecting against OWASP Top
10 threats, Amazon S3 cross-origin resource sharing [CORS], Shield Advanced).
Skill 3.1.3: Design and implement AWS edge controls and rules based on
requirements (for example, geography, geolocation, rate limiting, client
fingerprinting).
Skill 3.1.4: Configure integrations with AWS edge services and third-party services
(for example, by ingesting data in Open Cybersecurity Schema Framework [OCSF]
format, by using third-party WAF rules).
Task 3.2: Design, implement, and troubleshoot security controls for compute
workloads.
Skill 3.2.1: Design and implement hardened Amazon EC2 AMIs and container
images to secure compute workloads and embed security controls (for example,
Systems Manager, EC2 Image Builder).
Version 1.0 SCS-C03 6 | PAGE 
Skill 3.2.2: Apply instance profiles, service roles, and execution roles appropriately
to authorize compute workloads.
Skill 3.2.3: Scan compute resources for known vulnerabilities (for example, scan
container images and Lambda functions by using Amazon Inspector, monitor
compute runtimes by using GuardDuty).
Skill 3.2.4: Deploy patches across compute resources to maintain secure and
compliant environments by automating update processes and by integrating
continuous validation (for example, Systems Manager Patch Manager, Amazon
Inspector).
Skill 3.2.5: Configure secure administrative access to compute resources (for
example, Systems Manager Session Manager, EC2 Instance Connect).
Skill 3.2.6: Configure security tools to discover and remediate vulnerabilities
within a pipeline (for example, Amazon Q Developer, Amazon CodeGuru Security).
Skill 3.2.7: Implement protections and guardrails for generative AI applications
(for example, by applying GenAI OWASP Top 10 for LLM Applications protections).
Task 3.3: Design and troubleshoot network security controls.
Skill 3.3.1: Design and troubleshoot appropriate network controls to permit or
prevent network traffic as required (for example, security groups, network ACLs,
AWS Network Firewall).
Skill 3.3.2: Design secure connectivity between hybrid and multi-cloud networks
(for example, AWS Site-to-Site VPN, AWS Direct Connect, MAC Security [MACsec]).
Skill 3.3.3: Determine and configure security workload requirements for
communication between hybrid environments and AWS (for example, by using
AWS Verified Access).
Skill 3.3.4: Design network segmentation based on security requirements (for
example, north/south and east/west traffic protections, isolated subnets).
Skill 3.3.5: Identify unnecessary network access (for example, AWS Verified Access,
Network Access Analyzer, Amazon Inspector network reachability findings).
Version 1.0 SCS-C03 7 | PAGE 
Content Domain 4: Identity and Access Management
Task 4.1: Design, implement, and troubleshoot authentication strategies.
Skill 4.1.1: Design and establish identity solutions for human, application, and
system authentication (for example, AWS IAM Identity Center, Amazon Cognito,
multi-factor authentication [MFA], identity provider [IdP] integration).
Skill 4.1.2: Configure mechanisms to issue temporary credentials (for example,
AWS Security Token Service [AWS STS], Amazon S3 presigned URLs).
Skill 4.1.3: Troubleshooting authentication issues (for example, CloudTrail,
Amazon Cognito, IAM Identity Center permission sets, AWS Directory Service).
Task 4.2: Design, implement, and troubleshoot authorization strategies.
Skill 4.2.1: Design and evaluate authorization controls for human, application, and
system access (for example, Amazon Verified Permissions, IAM paths, IAM Roles
Anywhere, resource policies for cross-account access, IAM role trust policies).
Skill 4.2.2: Design attribute-based access control (ABAC) and role-based access
control (RBAC) strategies (for example, by configuring resource access based on
tags or attributes).
Skill 4.2.3: Design, interpret, and implement IAM policies by following the
principle of least privilege (for example, permission boundaries, session policies).
Skill 4.2.4: Analyze authorization failures to determine causes or effects (for
example, IAM Policy Simulator, IAM Access Analyzer).
Skill 4.2.5: Investigate and correct unintended permissions, authorizations, or
privileges granted to a resource, service, or entity (for example, IAM Access
Analyzer).
Content Domain 5: Data Protection
Task 5.1: Design and implement controls for data in transit.
Skill 5.1.1: Design and configure mechanisms to require encryption when
connecting to connect to resources (for example, by configuring Elastic Load
Balancing [ELB] security policies, by enforcing TLS configurations).
Skill 5.1.2: Design and configure mechanisms for secure and private access to
resources (for example, AWS PrivateLink, VPC endpoints, AWS Client VPN, AWS
Verified Access).
Version 1.0 SCS-C03 8 | PAGE 
Skill 5.1.3: Design and configure inter-resource encryption in transit (for example,
inter-node encryption configurations for Amazon EMR, Amazon Elastic Kubernetes
Service [Amazon EKS], SageMaker AI, Nitro encryption).
Task 5.2: Design and implement controls for data at rest.
Skill 5.2.1: Design, implement, and configure data encryption at rest based on
specific requirements (for example, by selecting the appropriate encryption key
service such as AWS CloudHSM or AWS Key Management Service [AWS KMS] or by
selecting the appropriate encryption type such as client-side encryption or serverside encryption).
Skill 5.2.2: Design and configure mechanisms to protect data integrity (for
example, S3 Object Lock, S3 Glacier Vault Lock, versioning, digital code signing,
file validation).
Skill 5.2.3: Design automatic lifecycle management and retention solutions for
data (for example, S3 Lifecycle policies, S3 Object Lock, Amazon Elastic File
System [Amazon EFS] Lifecycle policies, Amazon FSx for Lustre backup policies).
Skill 5.2.4: Design and configure secure data replication and backup solutions (for
example, Amazon Data Lifecycle Manager, AWS Backup, ransomware protection,
AWS DataSync).
Task 5.3: Design and implement controls to protect confidential data, credentials,
secrets, and cryptographic key materials.
Skill 5.3.1: Design management and rotation of credentials and secrets (for
example, AWS Secrets Manager).
Skill 5.3.2: Manage and use imported key material (for example, by managing and
rotating imported key material, by managing and configuring external key stores).
Skill 5.3.3: Describe the differences between imported key material and AWS
generated key material.
Skill 5.3.4: Mask sensitive data (for example, CloudWatch Logs data protection
policies, Amazon Simple Notification Service [Amazon SNS] message data
protection).
Skill 5.3.5: Create and manage encryption keys and certificates across a single
AWS Region or multiple Regions (for example, AWS KMS customer managed AWS
KMS keys, AWS Private Certificate Authority).
Version 1.0 SCS-C03 9 | PAGE 
Content Domain 6: Security Foundations and Governance
Task 6.1: Develop a strategy to centrally deploy and manage AWS accounts.
Skill 6.1.1: Deploy and configure organizations by using AWS Organizations.
Skill 6.1.2: Implement and manage AWS Control Tower in new and existing
environments, and deploy optional and custom controls.
Skill 6.1.3: Implement organization policies to manage permissions (for example,
SCPs, RCPs, AI service opt-out policies, declarative policies).
Skill 6.1.4: Centrally manage security services (for example, delegated
administrator accounts).
Skill 6.1.5: Manage AWS account root user credentials (for example, by
centralizing root access for member accounts, managing MFA, designing breakglass procedures).
Task 6.2: Implement a secure and consistent deployment strategy for cloud resources.
Skill 6.2.1: Use infrastructure as code (IaC) to deploy cloud resources consistently
and securely across accounts (for example, CloudFormation stack sets, third-party
IaC tools, CloudFormation Guard, cfn-lint).
Skill 6.2.2: Use tags to organize AWS resources into groups for management (for
example, by grouping by department, cost center, environment).
Skill 6.2.3: Deploy and enforce policies and configurations from a central source
(for example, AWS Firewall Manager).
Skill 6.2.4: Securely share resources across AWS accounts (for example, AWS
Service Catalog, AWS Resource Access Manager [AWS RAM]).
Task 6.3: Evaluate the compliance of AWS resources.
Skill 6.3.1: Create or enable rules to detect and remediate noncompliant AWS
resources and to send notifications (for example, by using AWS Config to
aggregate alerts and remediate non-compliant resources, Security Hub).
Skill 6.3.2: Use AWS audit services to collect and organize evidence (for example,
AWS Audit Manager, AWS Artifact).
Skill 6.3.3: Use AWS services to evaluate architecture for compliance with AWS
security best practices (for example, AWS Well-Architected Framework tool).
Version 1.0 SCS-C03 10 | PAGE 
Appendix A
Technologies and concepts that might appear on the exam
The following list contains technologies and concepts that might appear on the exam.
This list is non-exhaustive and is subject to change. The order and placement of the
items in this list is no indication of their relative weight or importance on the exam:
• AWS CLI
• AWS SDKs
• AWS Management Console
• Secure remote access
• Certificate management
• Infrastructure as code (IaC)
In-scope AWS services and features
Note: Security affects all AWS services. Many services do not appear in this list
because the overall service is out of scope, but the security aspects of the service are
in scope. For example, a candidate for this exam would not be asked about the steps
to set up replication for an S3 bucket. However, the candidate might be asked about
configuring an S3 bucket policy.
The following list contains AWS services and features that are in scope for the exam.
This list is non-exhaustive and is subject to change. AWS offerings appear in
categories that align with the offerings’ primary functions:
Analytics:
• Amazon Athena
• Amazon OpenSearch Service
Application Integration:
• Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS)
• AWS Step Functions
Version 1.0 SCS-C03 11 | PAGE 
Compute:
• Amazon API Gateway
• Amazon EC2 (including EC2 Image Builder, EC2 Instance Connect)
• Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS)
• Amazon EMR
• AWS Lambda
• Amazon Data Lifecycle Manager
Developer Tools
• AWS Fault Injection Service
Internet of Things
• AWS IoT Core
Machine Learning:
• Amazon Bedrock
• Amazon CodeGuru Security
• Amazon Q Business
• Amazon Q Developer
• Amazon SageMaker AI
Management and Governance:
• AWS CloudFormation
• AWS CloudTrail
• AWS CloudTrail Lake
• Amazon CloudWatch
• AWS Config
• AWS Control Tower
• Amazon Managed Grafana
• AWS Organizations
• AWS Resilience Hub
• AWS Resource Access Manager (AWS RAM)
• AWS Service Catalog
• AWS Systems Manager
• AWS Trusted Advisor
• AWS User Notifications
• AWS Well-Architected Tool
Version 1.0 SCS-C03 12 | PAGE 
Networking and Content Delivery:
• Amazon Application Recovery Controller
• Amazon VPC
o Network Access Analyzer
o Network ACLs
o Security groups
o VPC endpoints
o AWS Site-to-Site VPN
o Flow Logs
o VPC Endpoints
o AWS Verified Access
• AWS Client VPN
• Amazon CloudFront
• Amazon Verified Permissions
• Amazon Route 53 (including Route 53 Resolver DNS Firewall)
• AWS Direct Connect
• Elastic Load Balancing (ELB)
• Network Access Analyzer
• AWS Transit Gateway
Security, Identity, and Compliance:
• AWS Artifact
• AWS Audit Manager
• AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)
• AWS CloudHSM
• Amazon Cognito
• Amazon Detective
• AWS Directory Service
• AWS Firewall Manager
• Automated Forensics Orchestrator for Amazon EC2
• Amazon GuardDuty
• AWS IAM Identity Center
• AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)
• Amazon Inspector
• AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS)
• Amazon Macie
• AWS Network Firewall
Version 1.0 SCS-C03 13 | PAGE 

• AWS Private Certificate Authority
• AWS Secrets Manager
• AWS Security Hub
• Amazon Security Lake
• AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS)
• AWS Shield
• AWS Shield Advanced
• AWS WAF
Storage and Data Management:
• Amazon S3
• AWS Backup
• AWS DataSync
• Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS) (including EFS Lifecycle policies)
• Amazon FSx for Lustre
Out-of-scope AWS services and features
The following list contains AWS services and features that are out of scope for the
exam. This list is non-exhaustive and is subject to change. AWS offerings that are
entirely unrelated to the target job roles for the exam are excluded from this list:
Application Integration:
• Amazon Managed Workflows for Apache Airflow (Amazon MWAA)
Security, Identity, and Compliance:
• AWS Payment Cryptography